# Prediction Models

In this assignment, I learned how to build and refine a predictive model using the Forest-Based Classification and Regression Tool (Spatial Statistics). I began by building a simple model with the 4 explanatory variables that we explored in last week’s tutorials (education, median age, per capita income, and owning a selfie stick). I learned how to read the outputs of the tool including  validation diagnostics, variable importance, and prediction interval charts. The validation r-squared value is more accurate than the testing training values, because the training dataset is vulnerable to overfitting. I was excited to learn about variable importance, because the data analytics students on my systems team last semester always referenced variable importance… and now I mostly understand the metric and how to utilize it to improve a model! The prediction interval charts were also interesting. It took me a little while to understand what they represented, but now I think it’s a very useful exploratory data visualization for understanding model stability, or certain values for which the model is less accurate. 

The tutorial then includes several methods to improve the accuracy of the prediction model. First, I learned how to add and subtract variables from the model based on variable importance levels. These variables included distance, categorical (county voting requirements), and demographic data. Second, I learned how to increase the number of trees and model runs to improve accuracy. The tutorial suggests examining the “Model Out of Bag Errors” to see whether increasing the number of trees improves accuracy. In this example, more trees did not appear to increase accuracy. However, some of the steps in the tutorial took several minutes for my computer to run. So, for the last few steps I used less trees than suggested in the tutorial, and my accuracy was indeed slightly lower than the tutorial. As part of the model-building process I guess you need to decide between the level of accuracy and time/computing power. Third, I learned how to use data for a smaller region of the country to improve accuracy of predictions for that region. At the end of the tutorial, I applied the refined and localized prediction model to predict voter turnout in Iowa. 

This was my favorite tutorial so far. I liked how it built off of last week’s tutorials (enriching and exploring variables related to voter turnout). It made sense to complete those tasks to inform predictive model development. I have learned about predictive modeling before in other classes (R, Management Science), but I thought this tutorial did a really good job at explaining the workflow and how to actually improve a model. While I do feel like I better understand decision trees and predictive models, I have a hard time envisioning using this tool in the future. I think that is less to do with feeling comfortable with the ArcGIS tools, and more to do with not feeling confident about recognizing situations where a predictive model would be useful and appropriate. If I do find myself in a situation where I would want to create a predictive model, I will enjoy having these tutorials as PDFs, because I will probably forget how to create a prediction model in ArcGIS quickly. When I want/need to re-teach myself, the tutorials will be very helpful! 

Since I had a little extra time this week, I was able to explore the stretch task in the tutorial. The tutorial suggested using the Build Balanced Zones (Spatial Statistics Tools) to define 50 zones of the Canvassing Address Points in Naples, FL. After reading the documentation, I attempted to run this analysis, and I think below is the correct output. The error says that it divided the points into 49 equal-ish zones, not 50. I do not know why, and I am not sure whether that would be acceptable given the context. Overall, I thought it was a cool tool that seems very applicable for creating canvassing zones!  
